.TH "t2scan" 1 "01 April 2018" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
t2scan \- a small channel scan tool which generates DVB\-T/T2 channels.conf files
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B t2scan
.br
.B t2scan
.B [ options ] 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B t2scan
scans for DVB\-T, DVB\-T2 channels. ATSC is supported, but untested.
.br
Any other program accessing the DVB hardware (like e.g. VDR) has to be closed in order to avoid conflicts while running t2scan.
.br
.B t2scan 
provides the channels in different output formats (Default: VDR channels.conf). For other output formats see OPTIONS.
.SH "OPTIONS"
The following options are available.
.TP 
.B \-c N
specify lowest channel to scan,
.TP 
.B \-C N
specify highest channel to scan,
.TP
.B \-l COMMA-SEPARATED LIST with channel numbers
scan only channels in the given comma-separated list
.TP 
.B \-t TYPE
specify DVB-T type to scan,
.br
0 = DVB-T and DVB-T2 [default],
.br
1 = DVB-T only,
.br
2 = DVB-T2 only.
.TP 
.B \-o FORMAT
output format for the detected services
.br
gstreamer = channels.conf for dvbsrc plugin,
.br
mplayer   = mplayer output,
.br
vdr       = channels.conf for vdr >=2.1 [default],
.br
vdr20     = channels.conf for vdr 2.0.x,
.br
vlc       = VLC xspf playlist (experimental),
.br
xine      = tzap/czap/xine output,
.br
xml       = w_scan XML tuning data.
.TP 
.B \-E
Exclude encrypted channels from output
.TP
.B \-d
Mark duplicates in output (VDR output only)
.br
can be combined with -r to show reception values
.TP
.B \-s TYPES
specify service types to be included in output
.br
t = include TV channels in output [default: on],
.br
r = include radio channels in output [default: on],
.br
o = include other services in output [default: off],
.br
Example: "\-s tro" includes everything in output,
.br
Example: "\-s t" includes only TV channels in output.
.TP 
.B \-V
show version
.TP 
.B \-h
show help
.TP 
.B \-H
show expert help
.SH "EXPERT OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-L N
override the channel list to be used
.br
0 = Europe, UHF channels below 790 MHz [default for AT, BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, LU, NL]
.br
1 = Europe, UHF channels below 700 MHz,
.br
2 = Europe, all UHF channels,
.br
3 = Europe, all VHF and UHF channels [default for most European countries],
.br
4 = France, specific list with offsets,
.br
5 = GB, specific list with offsets,
.br
6 = Australia [default for Australia]
.TP 
.B \-Y COUNTRY_ID
Specifies the country where you try to scan for channels as uppercase two letter identifier, e.g.
.br
DE = Germany,
.br
US = United States,
.br
FR = France
.br
Use "-Y?" for a list of all known identifiers. Default is auto-detection from system settings.
.TP
.B \-D
Exclude duplicate services from output
.br
NOTE: If a service is found multiple times, this will only consider the instance found last!
.TP
.B \-p COMMA-SEPARATED LIST with PLP IDs
use the given PLP IDs for scanning.
.br
The default is depending on the country (-1,0,1 for most countries)
.br
The -1 does not filter the PLP and usually find the first PLP on the frequency.
.br
NOTE: In Germany, most DVB-T2 services are on PLP ID 0, some additional "connect" channels 
.br
are on PLP ID 1. For Austria, in most regions services are under PLP ID 1.
.TP
.B \-U
don't update transponder parameters with the data in the NIT.
.br
This means that most tuning parameters will be set to AUTO.
.TP
.B \-i CHARSET
specifies the default charset in which services are stored in the NIT.
.br
I.e. 'UTF-8', 'ISO-8859-15'; default: 'ISO6937'
.br
use 'iconv --list' to see full list of charsets.
.TP
.B \-I CHARSET
specifies the output charset, i.e. "UTF-8", "ISO-8859-15"
.br
use 'iconv --list' to see full list of charsets.
.TP 
.B \-v
verbose (repeat for more)
.TP 
.B \-q
quiet (repeat for less)
.TP 
.B \-a N
use device /dev/dvb/adapterN/ [default: auto detect]
.br
(also allowed: -a /dev/dvb/adapterN/frontendM)
.TP 
.B \-S N
Multiply tuning and filter timeouts, increasing may help if device tunes slowly or has bad reception.
.br
1 = default (2 sec for carrier, 4 sec for lock [DVB-T2: 6 sec]),
.br
2 = double (4 sec for carrier, 8 sec for lock [DVB-T2: 12 sec]),
.br
3 = triple (6 sec for carrier, 12 sec for lock [DVB-T2: 18 sec]),
.br
etc...
.TP
.B \-r
show reception values (strength and quality) in the debug output.
.br
If -d is used (marking of duplicates), values will be shown there as well.
.TP 
.B \-P
ATSC scan: do not use ATSC PSIP tables for scan (PAT and PMT only)
.TP 
.B \-m MODE
Scan mode,
.br
"t" = DVB-T (and ISDB-T) [default]
.br
"a" = ATSC (untested),
.br
.TP 
.B \-A N
specify ATSC scan type
.br
1 = terrestrial [default],
.br
2 = cable,
.br
3 = both, cable and terrestrial.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP
scan with default parameters (works in most scenarios):
.B t2scan
.TP
DVB-T type (-t): scan DVB-T2 only:
.B t2scan -t2
.TP
DVB-T type (-t): scan DVB-T only (no DVB-T2):
.B t2scan -t1
.TP
List of channels (-l): scan aerial, but only channels 21, 24, and 27:
.B t2scan -l21,24,27
.TP
Minimum and maximum channel (-c, -C): scan aerial from channel 21 to channel 32:
.B t2scan -c21 -C32
.TP
scan aerial (DVB-T/T2), exclude encrypted services from output:
.B t2scan -E
.TP
output format (-o): use output format vlc:
.B t2scan -ovlc
.TP
output format (-o): use output format zap/czap/xine:
.B t2scan -oxine
.TP
mark duplicate channels and services in the output:
.B t2scan -d
.TP
Type of services (-s): output only radio services:
.B t2scan -sr
.TP
Type of services (-s): output TV, radio and other services:
.B t2scan -stro
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
see README file from source code package.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by mighty-p, based on w_scan by W.Koehler
.PP 
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under
the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 any
later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR vdr (1)
